# NaCo_Project

## Project Overview

This repository is a project for Natural Computing course, 2025, where we experimented with the testing of concept drift using NSA and kNN algrithms. 


## How to run the files
### Datasets for execution
You can use the provided datasets for the executions. In each zip folder, ".train" file is for training, and ".test" is for testing.

### NSA Algorithm:
1) To run the NSA algorithm, you can use the Textor's version of the algorithm on command prompt. (See https://johannes-textor.name/negativeselection.html)
2) Save the output to a .txt file.
3) Once you have the normal and anomalous text files, you can use the "Combine_NSA_Result.ipynb" code to combine the results from normal and anomalous data.
4) Save the resultant output file in a directory of your choice.
5) Then plot the AUC graph.



### kNN Algorithm:
1) To run the kNN algorithm, use the "kNNmodel_and_AUC_Plotting.ipynb" notebook. 
2) Give the train files in "english_path_train" and "non_english_path_train" variables, and test files in "non_english_path_test" and "english_path_test".
5) Then plot the AUC graph.
6) You can also give the path of the NSA results in "file_pattern" and plot all the graphs.



## Dataset Overview

All_MDP_French_Strings.zip: Contains synthetic French string data generated using a Markov Decision Process (MDP) approach.

MDP_Strings_URL.zip: Contains synthetic URLs string data generated using a MDP approach.

All_Naive_English_Strings.zip: Contains naive synthetic English strings.

Naive_Strings_URLs.zip: Contains synthetic URLs string data generated using a Naive approach.

All_Weirdlang_Strings.zip: Contains synthetic WL string data generated using a Naive approach.

English - Centuries_wise.zip: English text samples organized by century (e.g., 17th, 18th, 19th) for historical linguistic analysis.

More synthetic datasets for English.zip: Additional variants of synthetic English string datasets. (Additional datasets used for kNN testing)



### NSA Results
The results are in numeric form. The column represents the score generated by the algorithm and the second column represents the class.

NSA_Lexical_English_Results.zip: Results from lexical feature analysis on English centuries datasets.

NSA_MDP_Results.zip: Results outputs for MDP-based synthetic data across languages.

NSA_MDP_English_French_Results.zip: Combined MDP results for English and French synthetic strings.

NSA_Naive_Raw_URL_Results.zip: Raw and Naive URLs results.

NSA_Naive_WL_Results.zip: Results for weird-language synthetic strings.

MDP_URL_Results.zip: Results for normal and anomalous data. (It does not contain two columns, but different files for normal and anomalous data)



## Notebooks

Generate_MDP_String_Files.ipynb: Generates the MDP-based strings.


Generate_Naive_Strings.ipynb: Generates naive synthetic English strings.


kNNmodel_and_AUC_Plotting.ipynb: 
1) Loads selected string datasets, extracts features.
2) Trains a k‑Nearest Neighbors classifier.
3) Plots ROC curves and computes AUC scores for evaluation.



Generate_MDP_String_Files.ipynb: Generates the MDP-based strings.



## Requirements

Key dependencies include:
numpy
pandas
scikit-learn
matplotlib
AUC


## Authors
Taha Khaleel

Yunfei Liang
